Wordle Client–Server Game (C++ / TCP)
Overview

This project is a TCP-based Wordle-style client–server game implemented in C++.
It demonstrates core systems programming concepts including socket programming, text-based protocols, shared libraries, and concurrent server handling.

The server hosts a word bank and manages client connections, while the client provides an interactive terminal-based gameplay experience with colored feedback for guesses.

This project was built as a group project for CPSC 328 (Network & Secure Programming) and tested locally on Linux systems.

Team & Contributions

Matthew Ventura — Shared Library Developer

Designed and implemented the reusable library used by both client and server

Implemented input validation, word comparison logic, file loading, logging utilities, and socket helper functions

Authored project documentation and integration support

Jackson Baur — Client Developer & Project Lead

Implemented the interactive client interface

Managed overall project coordination and final integration

Mohamed Abdelgawad — Server Developer

Implemented the multi-client TCP server

Added concurrency, logging, and ANSI-colored output

Features

TCP client–server architecture

Text-based communication protocol

Concurrent server handling (multiple clients)

Shared reusable C++ library

Input validation and error handling

ANSI-colored terminal UI for gameplay feedback

File-based word bank loading

Timestamped server logging

Build Instructions
Compile Server
g++ server.cpp library.cpp -o server

Run Server
./server            # Default port 5000
./server 6000       # Custom port

Compile Client
g++ client.cpp library.cpp -o client

Run Client
./client localhost
./client localhost 5000


The server must be running before starting the client.

Protocol Design

Communication between client and server uses a simple text-based protocol with newline-terminated messages.

Client → Server

READY — Request a new word

WORD — Request another word

BYE / QUIT — Disconnect

Server → Client

HELLO — Initial greeting after connection

<5-letter-word> — Random word from the word bank

BYE — Acknowledges client disconnect

The shared library’s send_message() and receive_message() functions ensure reliable message boundaries by appending and reading until \n.

Shared Library

The project uses a static-style shared C++ library (library.cpp / library.h) compiled into both the client and server.

It contains:

Input trimming and validation

Word comparison logic

Word bank loading

Random word selection

Socket send/receive helpers

Logging utilities

Safe connection cleanup

This design avoids duplicated logic and improves maintainability.

Known Limitations

If the server is restarted multiple times within the same second, the first randomly selected word may repeat.
This occurs because srand(time(NULL)) seeds the random number generator with second-level precision.
Once the server runs for more than a second, word selection behaves normally.

The project is intended for local or trusted-network use and does not implement encryption or authentication.

What I Learned

Designing and implementing reusable shared libraries in C++

Building reliable text-based network protocols

Debugging real client–server synchronization issues

Working with sockets, threads, and concurrency

Coordinating development across a team-based codebase

Why This Project Matters

This project reflects real-world systems programming skills commonly used in backend development, networking, and infrastructure roles. It goes beyond toy programs by combining networking, concurrency, modular design, and documentation into a working system.
